# A model comparison of multiclass classification for Forest Cover Type Prediction

## Abstract
This report carried out a comprehensive comparison of four candidate models by assessing their performance on the selected dataset. The dataset contains tree observations from Roosevelt Colorado, including information to predict the Cover Type (type of tree). It can be found on the UCI Machine Learning Repository. A sub-sample of this dataset is used to explore the predictive performance of the selected candidate models, which followed by the validation of the results using the cross-validation method. The results showed that several of the models had high F1-scores (< 0.8), with one model being less accurate.

## Models
- Linear Discriminant Analysis
- Random Forest Classifier
- Support Vector Machine
- K-Nearest Neighbours

## Performance
| Models | F1-score |
| :----: | :----: |
| Linear Discriminant Analysis | 0.6422 |
| Random Forest Classifier | 0.8504 |
| Support Vector Machine | 0.8244 |
| K-Nearest Neighbours | 0.8348 |

## Software implementation
All source code used to generate the results and figures in the paper are in this project. The calculations and figure generation are all run inside these `.py` files.
The data used in this study can be download from [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/uciml/forest-cover-type-dataset). Figures generated by the code are saved in `Figures`.

## Getting the code

You can [download a zip archive](https://github.com/gujingying/group_10/archive/refs/heads/main.zip).

## How to run
Using command line to run the script.

### Command Syntax

```
python <DATA FILE> <COMMAND LINE OPTIONS/FLAGS>
```

### Options

- *-m --model*: Specify which model to run.

  parameters: knn; rfc; lda; svm; all

  default: all


- *-l --location*: Specify the location of the data set.

  default: covtype.csv


### Example

```commandline
python -l covtype.csv -m rfc
```


